
<h1 class="sectionedit1" id="tccc">TCCC</h1>
<div class="level1">

<p>
Basic Management Plan for Care Under Fire
</p>

<p>
1. Return fire and take cover.
</p>

<p>
2. Direct or expect casualty to remain engaged as a combatant if appropriate.
</p>

<p>
3. Direct casualty to move to cover and apply self-aid if able.
</p>

<p>
4. Try to keep the casualty from sustaining additional wounds.
</p>

<p>
5. Casualties should be extricated from burning vehicles or buildings and moved to places of relative safety. Do what is necessary to stop the burning process.
</p>

<p>
6. Airway management is generally best deferred until the Tactical Field Care phase.  
</p>

<p>
7. Stop life-threatening external hemorrhage if tactically feasible:
</p>
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Direct casualty to control hemorrhage by self-aid if able.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Use a CoTCCC-recommended limb tourniquet for hemorrhage that is anatomically amenable to tourniquet use.</div>
</li>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> Apply the limb tourniquet over the uniform clearly proximal to the bleeding site(s). If the site of the life-threatening bleeding is not readily apparent, place the tourniquet “high and tight” (as proximal as possible) on the injured limb and move the casualty to cover.</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT1 SECTION "TCCC" [1-1073] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit2" id="naeidisvideod">Näidisvideod</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qgw8QgvXo50" class="urlextern" title="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qgw8QgvXo50" rel="nofollow">TCCC</a> (sama märksõnaga palju erinevaid)</div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT2 SECTION "Näidisvideod" [1074-1192] -->
<h2 class="sectionedit3" id="viited">Viited</h2>
<div class="level2">
<ul>
<li class="level1"><div class="li"> <a href="http://www.naemt.org/education/TCCC/guidelines_curriculum" class="urlextern" title="http://www.naemt.org/education/TCCC/guidelines_curriculum" rel="nofollow">TCCC-MP Guidelines and Curriculum</a> (seal slaide jmt ka) </div>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
<!-- EDIT3 SECTION "Viited" [1193-] -->